MFLT-8016 Document dev-mode and new commands for Linux SDK 1.2.0 (#350)
memfault/memfault-docs: docs/linux/quickstart.mdx

---
id: quickstart
title: Quick Start
sidebar_label: Quick Start
---

This tutorial will use a Docker container to walk you through building a Yocto
image with the Memfault SDK. This image is based on Poky, Yocto's reference
distribution.

If you already have your own Yocto-based distribution, we recommend following
our [integration guide][integration-guide] to learn how to add the Memfault SDK.

[integration-guide]: /docs/linux/integration-guide/

## Build and Run Linux with Memfault SDK

### Create a Memfault Project

Go to [app.memfault.com](https://app.memfault.com) and from the "Select a
Project" dropdown, click on "Create Project". Once you're done, you can find a

> project key, referenced as YOUR_PROJECT_KEY in this document, in the Project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
project key, referenced as `YOUR_PROJECT_KEY` in this document, in the Project
```

settings page.

### Checkout the Memfault Linux SDK

Checkout the [Memfault Linux SDK][sdk] on your computer.

The instructions on this guide are compatible with Linux and macOS (Intel and
Apple Silicon). Windows users can follow with minimal adjustments.

[sdk]: https://github.com/memfault/memfault-linux-sdk/blob/-/

### Create a Docker container to build with Yocto

We provide a [`Dockerfile`][dockerfile] and a [`run.sh`][run.sh] script to
create a container.

```
$ cd /path/to/memfault-linux-sdk/docker
$ MEMFAULT_PROJECT_KEY=<YOUR_PROJECT_KEY> ./run.sh -b
```

### Build your Yocto-based image

This project is configured to build an image for the `arm64` architecture on a
QEMU (emulated) machine.

To build the image, run:

```

> $ bitbake memfault-image

Reviewer: We've got the `b` shortcut for this, but maybe it's less magical this way.

```

> This will take around two hours the first time. Yocto will cache compilation

Reviewer: Depends a lot on your machine... for me it's been around 30 mins or so.

```suggestion
This will take a long time the first time. Yocto will cache compilation
```

results and future builds will be much faster. We use named Docker volumes to

> persist source code and build artifacts across reboots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
persist source code and build artifacts beyond the container lifetime.
```

:::tip

If Docker seems to hang for a long time (build output not updating, CPU usage
low) you may have run out of available space allocated to Docker. Check the
Docker console for limits on system resources.

:::

[dockerfile]:
  https://github.com/memfault/memfault-linux-sdk/blob/-/docker/Dockerfile
[run.sh]: https://github.com/memfault/memfault-linux-sdk/blob/-/docker/run.sh

### Run the image with QEMU

To start QEMU and run the image you have just build, we provide a convenient
shortcut:

> 

Reviewer: Maybe mention that `q` is more or less the same as what `runqemu qemuarm64 slirp nographic` in newer Yocto releases runs? People familiar with `runqemu` might be wondering why we're not using it. 

 We don't use it because `runqemu` was not available in older Yocto releases that we support (currently only Dunfell).

Author: @martijnthe 

I have added:
```
:::tip

The `q` shortcut executes our own [`runqemu.py`][runqemu] which is very similar
to `runqemu qemuarm64 slirp nographic` in newer Yocto distributions.

We maintain compatibility with older versions of Yocto in which `runqemu` did not support the dual-copy SWUpdate setup that we use here. This is why we provide our own.

:::
```

I just want to make sure that this is true. [Source](https://github.com/memfault/memfault-linux-sdk-internal/blob/master/DEVELOPMENT.md?plain=1#L165)

Reviewer: Yup, 100% accurate!

low) you may have run out of available space allocated to Docker. Check the
Docker console for limits on system resources.

:::

[dockerfile]:
  https://github.com/memfault/memfault-linux-sdk/blob/-/docker/Dockerfile
[run.sh]: https://github.com/memfault/memfault-linux-sdk/blob/-/docker/run.sh

### Run the image with QEMU

To start QEMU and run the image you have just built, we provide a convenient
shortcut:

```
$ q # Run image in QEMU
// Linux boots

login: root
```

:::tip

The `q` shortcut executes our own [`runqemu.py`][runqemu] which is very similar
to `runqemu qemuarm64 slirp nographic` in newer Yocto distributions.

We maintain compatibility with older versions of Yocto in which `runqemu` did
not support the dual-copy SWUpdate setup that we use here. This is why we
provide our own.

:::

[runqemu]:
  https://github.com/memfault/memfault-linux-sdk/blob/-/test-scripts/runqemu.py

### Inspect the integration

Login as `root` and make sure to enable data-collection (disabled by default).

```
# memfaultctl enable-data-collection
```

You can now use `memfaultctl` to generate events on the device. They will appear

> in your Memfault Dashboard.

Reviewer 2: Here's the article I usually go by when choosing whether to pick `target="_blank"` or not: https://css-tricks.com/use-target_blank/

tl;dr: the only good reason to break from the default is when the user is working on something and they would lose that state if they left the page.

In this case, if the user left the page, they wouldn't lose any state: not even their scroll position, which is handled correctly in the docs.

An argument not mentioned in the article is that `target="_blank"` leaves the user without a choice of where their link will open, but the default honors this (the user can always Ctrl+Click mousewheel-click).

> in your Memfault Dashboard.

Reviewer 2: These are the reasons why I chose to not use `target="_blank"` as a default, but also all good reasons not to use it in this case either.
